---
title:  2015 - What to Watch
date:   2015-01-11
categories: Predictions
description: My predictions and hopes for the technologies developers should watch in 2015.
---

With a new year starting, I thought it would be interesting to look at what we should be looking out for as developers over the next year. There's a lot of exciting technologies that have been announced or released recently, and over the coming year we should see more and more of them.

## Roslyn

Roslyn has long been a "coming soon" technology, promising big things when it's made available. Finally, Roslyn has actually come of age, and is going to be the default compiler in Visual Studio 2015. Will it actually bring with it any revolutionary improvements?

Since it was first announced, Roslyn has changed tack from it's original form. It began as a "compiler as a service", allowing you to use the Roslyn compiler engine to consume C# scripts into your application. This part of Roslyn no longer exists (it may be coming later), and Roslyn is now focussed on becoming the next generation compiler for .NET. It not only is more efficient than the previous .NET compiler shipped with older versions of Visual Studio, it also allows some really exciting new processes.

Firstly, dynamic compilation is supported. This means, for example, when developing a website you can modify your controller code and simply refresh the page to see the changes. No need to stop debugging and rebuild, everything is handled on the fly. Thanks to this, making and testing changes in the development process becomes much slicker and easier, making developing with .NET feel more like an with interpreted language such PHP but without losing the benefits of a compiled language.

Secondly, the Roslyn compiler provides a complete API allowing extension developers to utilise the compiler in order to produce an extension that truly understands the code. This will allow for advanced inspections and refactoring of code (such as those provided by ReSharper) with a rich understanding of how the code works and is affected.

## Wearable Technology

Wearable technology has been talked about a lot, and there are now a multitude of devices available to purchase. From simple fitness trackers up to full blown smartwatch, there's a huge range of devices available now, with more and more affordable devices being released. These wearable devices provide a whole new set of possibilities for us as developers, with not only new user experiences being required but also a wealth of new information available.

Smartwatches provide us with a whole new way of interacting with the end users of our applications. By having an always connected screen on the wrist, you can provide rich notifications and updates to the user that weren't previously possible. Applications can now provide interactive updates to users that don't require them to fetch their phone, and can allow for a more encompassing experiencing where users can respond to notification where they previously couldn't use a phone.

The increase in wearable technology also provides a huge amount of information from the many sensors being included in the devices now. For example, the Microsoft Band includes steps, location, heart rate, altitude, and more. This allows for new services providing new insights into your life, improving health and fitness through the analysis of this information. By making use of all this information and analyzing it on a large scale, predictions and advice can be provided and there is a potential for early detection and diagnosis of issues.

## Universal Applications

With Windows 8.1 and Windows Phone 8.1, Microsoft has been promoting the idea of Universal Applications, where a single set of code can provide your complete application over both platforms. With Windows 10 coming out this year, there is an even bigger push for this. Not only will the same apps run across phone and PC, but also on other platforms such as consoles. If this is combined with techology such as that for Xamarin, there is the potential for powerful applications to be developed across all platforms with no performance or development penalty.

Xamarin is already providing some of this through Xamarin Forms, which allows for a single set of UI code to provide a native application for Windows Phone, iOS, and Android. With stronger collaboration between Microsoft and Xamarin, we could see this become even better and more powerful throughout 2015.

## Conclusion

I've only looked at three of what I think are the most exciting technologies to watch during this coming year, but there's many more technologies that are promising to be big this year. From virtual reality headsets and full body game controllers, to self driving cars, 2015 is set to be a really exciting year for technology and I'm looking forward to seeing what developers come up with.
